README.rst, before:

Introduction
============

.. image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/foamyguy-circuitpython-blinka_displayio_pygamedisplay/badge/?version=latest
    :target: https://circuitpython.readthedocs.io/projects/blinka_displayio_pygamedisplay/en/latest/
    :alt: Documentation Status

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/discord/327254708534116352.svg
    :target: https://adafru.it/discord
    :alt: Discord

.. image:: https://github.com/foamyguy/Foamyguy_CircuitPython_Blinka_Displayio_PyGameDisplay/workflows/Build%20CI/badge.svg
    :target: https://github.com/foamyguy/Foamyguy_CircuitPython_Blinka_Displayio_PyGameDisplay/actions
    :alt: Build Status

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg
    :target: https://github.com/psf/black
    :alt: Code Style: Black

Blinka makes her debut on the big screen! With this library you can use CircuitPython ``displayio`` code on PC and Raspberry Pi to output to a PyGame window instead of a hardware display connected to I2C or SPI. This makes it easy to to use ``displayio`` elements on HDMI and other large format screens.


Dependencies
=============
This driver depends on:

* `Adafruit Blinka Displayio <https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_Blinka_Displayio>`_

Please ensure all dependencies are available they can be installed with pip3


Optional Dependencies
=====================
This driver can optionally make use of these ``displayio`` module libraries:

* `Adafruit Display Text <https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_Display_Text>`_
* `Adafruit ImageLoad <https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_ImageLoad>`_
* `Adafruit Progress Bar <https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_ProgressBar>`_
* `Adafruit Display Button <https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_Display_Button>`_

They can be installed with pip3.

Installing from PyPI
=====================

On supported GNU/Linux systems like the Raspberry Pi, you can install the driver locally `from
PyPI <https://pypi.org/project/adafruit-circuitpython-blinka_displayio_pygamedisplay/>`_. To install for current user:

.. code-block:: shell

    pip3 install blinka-displayio-pygamedisplay

To install system-wide (this may be required in some cases):

.. code-block:: shell

    sudo pip3 install blinka-displayio-pygamedisplay

To install in a virtual environment in your current project:

.. code-block:: shell

    mkdir project-name && cd project-name
    python3 -m venv .env
    source .env/bin/activate
    pip3 install blinka-displayio-pygamedisplay

Usage Example
=============

.. code-block:: python

    import displayio
    from blinka_displayio_pygamedisplay import PyGameDisplay

    display = PyGameDisplay(width=320, height=240)
    splash = displayio.Group(max_size=10)
    display.show(splash)

    color_bitmap = displayio.Bitmap(display.width, display.height, 1)
    color_palette = displayio.Palette(1)
    color_palette[0] = 0x00FF00  # Bright Green

    bg_sprite = displayio.TileGrid(color_bitmap, pixel_shader=color_palette, x=0, y=0)
    splash.append(bg_sprite)
    while True:
        pass

Contributing
============

Contributions are welcome! Please read our `Code of Conduct
<https://github.com/foamyguy/Foamyguy_CircuitPython_Blinka_Displayio_PyGameDisplay/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md>`_
before contributing to help this project stay welcoming.

Documentation
=============

For information on building library documentation, please check out `this guide <https://learn.adafruit.com/creating-and-sharing-a-circuitpython-library/sharing-our-docs-on-readthedocs#sphinx-5-1>`_.

Commit message:

adding pygame requirement. fix readme example, add note about display.running

README.rst, after:

Introduction
============

.. image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/foamyguy-circuitpython-blinka_displayio_pygamedisplay/badge/?version=latest
    :target: https://circuitpython.readthedocs.io/projects/blinka_displayio_pygamedisplay/en/latest/
    :alt: Documentation Status

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/discord/327254708534116352.svg
    :target: https://adafru.it/discord
    :alt: Discord

.. image:: https://github.com/foamyguy/Foamyguy_CircuitPython_Blinka_Displayio_PyGameDisplay/workflows/Build%20CI/badge.svg
    :target: https://github.com/foamyguy/Foamyguy_CircuitPython_Blinka_Displayio_PyGameDisplay/actions
    :alt: Build Status

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg
    :target: https://github.com/psf/black
    :alt: Code Style: Black

Blinka makes her debut on the big screen! With this library you can use CircuitPython ``displayio`` code on PC and Raspberry Pi to output to a PyGame window instead of a hardware display connected to I2C or SPI. This makes it easy to to use ``displayio`` elements on HDMI and other large format screens.


Dependencies
=============
This driver depends on:

* `PyGame <https://github.com/pygame/pygame>`_
* `Adafruit Blinka Displayio <https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_Blinka_Displayio>`_

Please ensure all dependencies are available they can be installed with pip3


Optional Dependencies
=====================
This driver can optionally make use of these ``displayio`` module libraries:

* `Adafruit Display Text <https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_Display_Text>`_
* `Adafruit ImageLoad <https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_ImageLoad>`_
* `Adafruit Progress Bar <https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_ProgressBar>`_
* `Adafruit Display Button <https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_Display_Button>`_

They can be installed with pip3.

Installing from PyPI
=====================

On supported GNU/Linux systems like the Raspberry Pi, you can install the driver locally `from
PyPI <https://pypi.org/project/adafruit-circuitpython-blinka_displayio_pygamedisplay/>`_. To install for current user:

.. code-block:: shell

    pip3 install blinka-displayio-pygamedisplay

To install system-wide (this may be required in some cases):

.. code-block:: shell

    sudo pip3 install blinka-displayio-pygamedisplay

To install in a virtual environment in your current project:

.. code-block:: shell

    mkdir project-name && cd project-name
    python3 -m venv .env
    source .env/bin/activate
    pip3 install blinka-displayio-pygamedisplay

Usage Example
=============

.. code-block:: python

    import displayio
    from blinka_displayio_pygamedisplay import PyGameDisplay

    display = PyGameDisplay(width=320, height=240)
    splash = displayio.Group(max_size=10)
    display.show(splash)

    color_bitmap = displayio.Bitmap(display.width, display.height, 1)
    color_palette = displayio.Palette(1)
    color_palette[0] = 0x00FF00  # Bright Green

    bg_sprite = displayio.TileGrid(color_bitmap, pixel_shader=color_palette, x=0, y=0)
    splash.append(bg_sprite)
    # Must check display.running in the main loop!
    while display.running:
        pass

Contributing
============

Contributions are welcome! Please read our `Code of Conduct
<https://github.com/foamyguy/Foamyguy_CircuitPython_Blinka_Displayio_PyGameDisplay/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md>`_
before contributing to help this project stay welcoming.

Documentation
=============

For information on building library documentation, please check out `this guide <https://learn.adafruit.com/creating-and-sharing-a-circuitpython-library/sharing-our-docs-on-readthedocs#sphinx-5-1>`_.
